Questions, comments,
concerns, cries of outrage?
>> How often do you use subjects
in your day-to-day work?
>> Shockingly, so, the question was,
how often do we use subjects?
So subjects are very similar
to event emitters, right?
You can have a subscription and you can
have multiple things that subscribe to it.
Now, theoretically, I'm technically
using a subject right here, right?
I'm effectively turning a cold
observable into a subject.
So, there's two ways to
answer this question.
One is, as somebody who builds
an app in Svelte all the time,
Svelte sores are effectively subjects,
right?
And because Svelte handles
reactive things out of the box,
commonly they use them instead of a Redux
data store or something along those lines.
In the actual, I'm coordinating
some events, not as often.
And so a subject, just to be clear,
is both a subscription and
an observable, so you can both say,
call.next, all the things we did
originally in the very beginning
you can call.next.subscribe.
Obviously, .next.complete.error,
so on and so forth.
And then things can also subscribe to it.
So, there's one object that is both
an observable and an observer,
at the same time, right?
And so, those are useful if you have
pieces of your application that maybe
wanna listen to one core data store.
So, in my application on a day-to-day
basis, those are Svelte stores.
When I did React,
I didn't use them at all because Redux
was my store in that case, right?
Effectively, the reducer was the shared
thing that everything talked to, and I was
just dealing, and action would come in we
do awesome the dance you see right here.
Of figuring out when things should happen
and I was subscribed to the store itself.
So, it's useful as a data store that
you wanna know when it changes, right?
But in terms of a lot of the flow and
coordination,
this is theoretically one right here.
And so pieces like that,
they come up when I need to share
data in two places at once.
Cuz, again,
I didn't wanna fire two data requests.
As often as you see them
immediately in the beginning
of the RxJS Docs, no, I don't, right?
That's it, I think in Angular, you can
use them a little bit more as a store and
kind of for
that same purpose that I use Svelte.
Svelte stores are not subjects,
they're just subject-like.
I think, in Angular, you might end up
using them a little bit more, as well.
Behavior subjects are the ones
that give you the last value or
think of replace object.
We'll play through all the values and
set forgotten and
async subject only gives you a value
when it completes doing that for memory.
I've never used an async subject, I don't
know why I would use an async subject.
But, yeah, behavior subject is
very much like this effectively.
Not only is this a subject, this is
effectively a behavior subject, right?
If you're a new subscriber,
here's the last thing that I said, right?
If this shared replay had a huge number,
it could be all the things
that have happened, right?
And so it's a way to kinda catch
up with previous things, as well.
>> I've also had to swap an Angular
event emitter for a behavior subject.
I don't remember why, but
that was really interesting.
>> In Angular, if you want to use
a certain type of change detection,
you have to use observables.
>> Yeah.
>> So use behavior subjects or subjects.
>> But there are really good
syntax in there, right?
They have that async syntax, right?
>> Yeah, so.
>> Do you have any advice for using RxJS
outside of Angular for other frameworks?
>> I mean, I've only exclusively
used it outside, so, yes.
So, I think, commonly, the place that I've
used it for is in a React application.
And so, in that case,
you have redux-observable.
And redux-observable is
effectively middleware for Redux,
where you set up these things called
Epics, which sounds really cool.
But an Epic is just a piece of middleware
that every single action flows through.
So you can have multiple Epics
that you can combine, but
every single action flows
through every single Epic.
And what you do is, effectively,
you could filter or there's a type for
the type of action but
it's effectively a filter.
And so when every single action flows
through, then you find yourself where you
can deal with that and you could also
merge map it to other actions, right?
And okay, they said, hey,
I'm looking for the API data.
Cool fire the we're loading the API data
action which then React can deal with or
whatever.
And then when that comes back,
then I want to fire a action for
we're done loading, here's the data,
take everything down, right?
And so, for the application,
I worked on the SendGrid,
the marketing campaign editor.
We basically use that for
every single action flew through that
because SendGrid at the time, still today,
used its public APIs for all of its
client-side applications, right?
But those public APIs weren't necessarily
built for building UIs, right?
So, a lot of times we would have to
kind of do a lot of orchestration and
dancing with those APIs.
Like, cool actually need to hit these
three APIs, wait till they all come back
or some subset of that progressive
data loading, and put it all in place.
So, redux-observable's really great.
But also, if you think about it,
if you're familiar with React,
I think I mentioned a few
times during this course,
you can make a use observable
hook pretty easily, right?
Passing an observable that uses
use effect, subscribe to it every
time it emits, have some use state
that you trigger use reducer, right?
For whatever you want, and
then unsubscribe to it, right?
So you can use them, basically, anywhere.
And that's why we focus this course
on just using Vanilla JavaScript to
kind of take it away from,
most courses on Angular will have
RxJS in context of Angular, right?
So, part of the reason in this
fundamentals course was just to separate
it from any framework, and so you can
lock it into whether it's React or View.
I'm sure you can put a number
if you tried, I have not, or
in my case Svelte, we kind of use it for
both the stores or a similar thing.
And you can also, it's two lines to wrap
a RxJS observable in the Svelte store.
But also that kind of I've triggered
something, here are all the things I wanna
happen, here are the end result,
I think is the most important part and
that can just be JavaScript
like in an agnostic format.
>> Somewhat to follow on to your
question where I've used reactive stream
handlers successfully is when I'm
getting 120 data points a second
coming in from the streamer that
I need to send somewhere else.
So I can create a stream handler around
it, fork it to disk on one side for
the console logging off one and
send to another endpoint.
So, in that scenario, you're probably
gonna end up with a large number or
a lot of turnover if you
have a sliding window.
I've only used these,
you wouldn't notice memory hit
on the data that's turning over.
Do you have a sense of how this would
work on a larger dataset if we use
something like filter to we're placing
10% of our data at every update?
>> Yeah, so, I'm currently
experimenting this right now.
For ten portals dashboard,
you can have anywhere from a few
workflows running to,
theoretically, millions, right?
At this point,
I'm currently stress testing it.
I'm up to 150,000 which is still not
even the scale you're talking about.
It's tricky cuz I'm also keeping
all that data in memory, too.
So my memory footprint is currently large,
but
I'm also effectively building
a giant object of data in memory.
But the actual, I was shocked, I basically
sat down to run these benchmarks,
expecting to come up with a list of work,
and it wasn't that bad.
>> Wow.
>> Right, DOM rendering was worse than
showing out to the page where I
was thrashing the DOM too much,
was a bigger problem than
processing the data in that case.
That said, anything at scale gets weird.
Also, like we said before, request
idle callback for scheduling stuff.
So, for a lot of these,
request idle callback is a kind of like
set timeout or request animation frame.
But it's, browser, can we give you
a function to call when you're not busy?
[LAUGH] And you tend to slot into,
so, if the user's doing something,
I won't be refreshing the API, right?
But if they stop moving that mouse for
a little bit, and hang out for
a little bit, then, I will go ahead.
And you can even, there is, I think,
we talked a little bit about from event,
there is I think,
from animation frame, as well.
But even an abstraction around that, like
we saw in that first test, where you have
an observer that says request animation
frame call next to get the next value.
And do stuff along those lines.
If there's not the API you want, you
can then use that kind of base version.
But, yeah, for that standard stuff
especially with the DOM request
idle callback has been super helpful.
And I think it's browser only, so,
I don't think you have it in Node.
But you also don't have users
touching stuff in Node.
[LAUGH] So that's helpful, as well.
>> Is there any additional resources for
recipes for common scenarios?
>> That's a great question,
let's see.
>> Marble diagrams?
>> [LAUGH] Notes I made it through how
many hours avoiding those, [LAUGH].
Yeah, I mean the Docs are also, I think,
once you get the fundamental concepts
like I do refer to the Docs a lot.
So it's just RxJS.dev.
To be clear to also if
you're using in React or
if you're using with Redux, right?
Redux is also framework agnostic even
though it has a buddy that it hangs out
with all the time.
I think redux-observable's really good.
RxJS, the docs themselves are,
I don't know how to get to it from here,
but I always know that I
can just do it's like API.
No, there it is,
I can get the creators over here.
And then the operators.
And then a lot of times I
will kind of go through and
see which one speaks to me a lot of times.
And just kind of figure out, cuz a lot of
times, these are common problems, you're
gonna have weird one-off issues in your
code base that are just unique to you and
the complexities of the problem
you're trying to solve.
So, in here,
you can kind of figure out here, as well.
So, I spent a lot of time on this page and
then also the previous one
of just the index tab.
These are all the creators.
So, you can see that of is in here,
from, and then the operators,
as well,
to kind of work through all of them.
But, for me, it was just watching a bunch
of random YouTube videos that I have found
piecemeal, one at a time, [LAUGH], so.
>> Would do you recommend RxJS instead
of redux-saga in a React app for
analytics, very specific?
>> Yeah, so, redux-saga is another
way to asynchronously handle
middleware using the saga pattern.
I am embarrassed to tell you the story
of how we chose redux-observable and
RxJS over redux-saga, but I will
tell it to you because you've asked.
This was four years ago, five years ago,
we were rearchitecting our
frontend code base at the time,
and going from rails and some flux,
but we didn't know flux.
So we implemented our own flux,
and then some jQuery and
a more modern version of it.
And the choices were redux-thunk,
which has gotten better with
some of the Redux toolkit stuff.
To be clear,
anything I'm saying ill about redux-thunk
I'm saying about 2017 redux-thunk.
And then there are the choices of
redux-saga and redux-observable.
Redux-saga uses generator functions,
which as we saw in the very
beginning of this course, is not
wildly different in its syntax, right?
It has a set of values generated
over time, so on and so forth.
But it has a little star on the function,
and
one of the engineers on my
team didn't like the syntax.
So, four or five years ago,
we committed to redux-observable cuz they
seemed about equal at the time, but
that was our decision-making process.
So, mostly, I continue to go with
RxJS cuz I am familiar with it.
And it has,
we built a very large code base and
that was never the problem, right?
And we had to do a lot of questionable
orchestration of APIs to ship
the features that we needed to ship when
we didn't have the APIs that we wanted to.
And we're basically very
cleanly able to do all of them.
That does not mean you couldn't get
that done in redux-saga, but we,
at a certain point,
given two options, made a choice.
And unlike a lot of technology choices,
we made a choice and
then didn't regret it, right?
[LAUGH] So, if RxJS wants
a testimonial for the webpage,
I'll happily say, we chose it and
didn't regret it a few years later.
Which is the highest praise, I think,
you can give any technology.
Thank you all, thank you so much.
>> [APPLAUSE]